# Mongo and Mongoose
 **Fill in the chart below with five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:**
 
 | ID | SQL | NoSQL |
 |------| ------ |------- |
  | 01 | table based databases | document based, key-value pairs |
  |02|examples: MySql, Oracle, Sqlite, Postgres and MS-SQL|MongoDB, BigTable, Redis, RavenDb, Cassandra, Hbase, Neo4j and CouchDb|
  |03|vertically scalable|horizontally scalable|
  |04|primarily called as Relational Databases (RDBMS)	|primarily called as non-relational or distributed database|
  |05|not best fit for hierarchical data storage	|fits better for the hierarchical data storage as it follows the key-value pair way of storing data similar to JSON data
|

**What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?**

Best fit for heavy duty transactional type applications.

**Give a real world example.**

About customerthe customer info, what the customer purchased 

**What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?**

Objects, which contains key-pair value.

**Give a real world example.**

 The E-commerce ads.

**Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?**

SQL is a better for hierarchical storage.

**Which type of database is best for scalability?**

NoSQL as it does not require to upgrade the hardware.

**What does SQL stand for?**

Structured Query Language.

**What is a relational database?**

A database structured to recognize relations between stored items of information.

**What type of structure does a relational database work with?**

A relational database organizes data into rows and columns, which collectively form a table.

**What is a 'schema'?**
Is the structure of a database described in a formal language supported by the database management system. The term "schema" refers to the organization of data as a blueprint of how the database is constructed

**What is a NoSQL database?**

A place (database) that stores data in a form of key-value pair.

**How does it work?**

Store data in documents rather than relational tables.

**What is inside of a Mongo database?**

MongoDB stores data records as documents  which are gathered together in collections.

**Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.**

MongoDB as it ensures high and diverse data availability

**What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?**

Don't have the reliability functions which Relational Databases have
## Things I want to know more about